# Alfajores Testnet Disclaimer

By using, and contributing to, the Celo Alfajores Testnet, you \(the User\) agree to these terms and acknowledge and agree that the Celo protocol and platform is at an early stage of development and that use of the Alfajores Testnet is entirely at the User’s sole risk. You also agree to adhere to the [Celo Code of Conduct](https://app.gitbook.com/@celo-org/s/docs/community/code-of-conduct).

The User acknowledges and agrees that it has an adequate understanding of the risks associated with use of the Celo Alfajores Testnet and that all information and materials published, distributed or otherwise made available on the Celo Alfajores Testnet are provided for non-commercial, personal use only. This includes test Celo Gold and Celo Dollars \(or other stable value asset test units\) which have no economic value and are provided for the purpose of testing only.

All content provided on the Celo Alfajores Testnet is subject to the License included and provided on an ‘AS IS’ and ‘AS AVAILABLE’ basis, without any representations or warranties of any kind. All implied terms are excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. No party involved in, or having contributed to the development of, the Celo Alfajores Testnet including any of their affiliates, directors, employees, contractors, service providers or agents \(the Parties Involved\) accept any responsibility or liability to Users or any third parties in relation to any materials or information accessed or downloaded via the Celo Alfajores Testnet. The User acknowledges and agrees that the Parties Involved are not responsible for any damage to the User’s computer systems, loss of data, or any other loss or damage resulting \(directly or indirectly\) from use of the Celo Alfajores Testnet.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, in no event shall the Parties involved have any liability whatsoever to any person for any direct or indirect loss, liability, cost, claim, expense or damage of any kind, whether in contract or in tort, including negligence, or otherwise, arising out of or related to the use of all or part of the Celo Alfajores Testnet.

The Celo Labs software is not subject to the EAR based on Section 734.7 of the U.S. Export Administration Regulations \("EAR", 15 CFR Parts 730-774\) and Section 742.15\(b\) of the EAR, which applies to the software containing or designed for use with encryption software that is publicly available as open-source. However, products developed using the Celo Labs software may be subject to the EAR or local laws/regulations. Users are responsible for compliance with U.S. and local country export/import laws and regulations.

Celo Labs software may not be exported/reexported, either directly or indirectly, to any destination subject to U.S. embargoes or trade sanctions unless formally authorized by the U.S. Government. The embargoed destinations are subject to change and the scope of what is included in the embargo is specific to each embargoed country. For the most current information on U.S. embargoed and sanctioned countries, see the [Treasury Department regulations](https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/Pages/Programs.aspx).
