# Choosing a Network

The best place to start exploring Celo depends on your interests and objectives:

* [**Alfajores**](alfajores-testnet/)**, the Developer Testnet**: If you're a developer considering building on the Celo platform, or want to try out the [Celo Wallet](https://celo.org/build/wallet), start with [Alfajores](alfajores-testnet/). You can [obtain a balance](https://celo.org/build/faucet) immediately and use it for experimenting with. The [SDK tutorials](../developer-guide/start/) assume you are using Alfajores. The network is managed by cLabs, who operate all of its validators, and its software and deployed contracts will track mainnet.
* [**Baklava**](baklava-testnet/)**, the Node Operator Testnet**: If you're interested in operating one or more nodes that make up Celo's infrastructure, start with [Baklava](baklava-testnet/). Baklava's validators and full nodes are operated by the community. It is intended to provide a venue to test new builds of the Celo Blockchain software, trial on-chain governance proposals, and for node operators to build operational best practices. Support for developers and users of the Wallet is not the primary focus.
* [**Mainnet**](mainnet/)**:** The production Celo network, Mainnet was previously known as the Release Candidate 1 network. Deployed by the Celo community starting 4/22/20, the network is currently working towards enabling the Celo stability mechansim. Much of the activity is being driven by the validator organisations that featured on the leaderboard of [The Great Celo Stake Off](https://forum.celo.org/t/the-great-celo-stake-off-the-details/136).

